Add reproducers article (#4)
keith/smileykeith.com: _posts/2020-09-29-lldb-reproducers.md

---
layout: post
title: "LLDB Reproducers"
date: 2020-09-29 19:39
---

Swift developers love to complain about LLDB. While there are many

> reasaonable complaints, the important question is what can we do to make

Reviewer: ```suggestion
reasonable complaints, the important question is what can we do to make
```

> reasaonable complaints, the important question is what can we do to make

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
reasonable complaints, the important question is what can we do to make
```

it better.

Enter [reproducers][reproducers]. Reproducers provide a way to run LLDB

> while also capturing information about your debugging session. Then you

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
while also capturing information about your debugging session. After, you
```

can [submit][radar] the session to Apple to reproduce the bug you've
experienced.

# How?

> While the steps to use reproducers are mostly straight forward, the
> problem is launching LLDB from Xcode does not enable `--capture` mode

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Although the steps to use reproducers are mostly straightforward,
launching LLDB from Xcode does not enable `--capture` mode
```

(FB7878562). This means if you want to provide a reproducer for an issue

> you've experienced in a Xcode debugging session you need to reproduce

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
you've experienced in a Xcode debugging session, you need to reproduce
```

it outside of Xcode instead.

Note: to provide a useful reproducer, LLDB bundles all files the

> debugging session touched. This will include binaries with debug info

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
debugging session touched. This includes binaries with debug info
```

that you may consider sensitive. Be sure to verify what you're sharing
with Apple before you [send it][radar].

## CLI / macOS app

If you're debugging a program on your Mac, there are a few steps:

> 1. Run the app in Xcode and stop it (so you know it's up to date).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run the app in Xcode and stop it (so you know it's from the current source code).
```

> 2. In Terminal.app navigate to your DerivedData directory (you can find

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. In Terminal.app, navigate to your DerivedData directory (you can find
```

   this by right clicking on your app in the "Products" section of
   Xcode's project navigator, and clicking "Show in Finder").
3. Run `lldb --capture /path/to/Your.app`.

> 4. In the LLDB session run `process launch --stop-at-entry`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. In the LLDB session, run `process launch --stop-at-entry`.
```

5. Now you're in a paused LLDB session. Here you can set whatever

>    breakpoints you need to reproduce your issue. Often for me this means

Reviewer: Maybe worth linking to some docs on the various commands to set these? It's mentioned below but someone might not even get that far if they get stuck here.

>    breaking at a specific place, and running some version of `po foo`
>    that causes an issue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   breaking at a specific place and running some version of `po foo`
   to trigger the issue.
```

6. Once you're done reproducing the issue, run `reproducer generate` in

>    LLDB. This will print the path the information was written to.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   LLDB. This will print the path that the information was written to.
```

7. Verify the contents of the output directory doesn't include anything
   you're not comfortable sharing with Apple, zip it, and [submit a
   radar][radar]!

## iOS app on the simulator

Running apps directly from LLDB on the iOS simulator does [not
work](https://forums.swift.org/t/using-lldb-with-ios-simulator-from-cli/33990/6)

> the same way as running a macOS app. Because of this the steps differ.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the same way as running a macOS app. Because of this, the steps differ:
```

1. Run the app in Xcode and stop it. This way it's updated and installed

>    on the iOS simulator.

Reviewer 2: Same comment as @sberrevoets' above

2. Run `lldb --capture --wait-for --attach-name YOUR_APP_NAME`.
3. Manually launch your app in the Simulator.
4. Now you're in a paused LLDB session. Here you can set whatever
   breakpoints you need to reproduce your issue. Often for me this means
   breaking at a specific place, and running some version of `po foo`

>    that causes an issue.

Reviewer 2: Same comment as above

5. Once you're done reproducing the issue, run `reproducer generate` in
   LLDB. This will print the path the information was written to.
6. Verify the contents of the output directory doesn't include anything
   you're not comfortable sharing with Apple, zip it, and [submit a
   radar][radar]!

## iOS app on device

Unfortunately, I haven't yet figured out the right incantation to launch

> LLDB directly and attach to a process on device. If anyone has a good

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
LLDB directly and attach to an on-device process. If anyone has a good
```
